Orb tools 11 (#6560)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/orb-author.md

Whether you are writing your first orb or getting ready for production level, we recommend using our [Orb Development Kit](#orb-development-kit) to get started. Alternatively, as orbs are packages of [reusable configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config), they can be written [manually]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-author-validate-publish), as singular `yaml` files, and published using our [circleci orb cli]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/local-cli/#installation).

## Orb Development Kit
{: #orb-development-kit }

The Orb Development Kit refers to a suite of tools that work together to simplify the orb development process, with automatic testing and deployment on CircleCI. The Orb Development Kit is made up of the following components:

* [Orb Template](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/Orb-Template)
* [CircleCI CLI](https://circleci-public.github.io/circleci-cli/)
    * [Orb Pack Command]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/#orb-packing)
    * [Orb Init Command](https://circleci-public.github.io/circleci-cli/circleci_orb_init.html)
* [Orb Tools Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/circleci/orb-tools)

> ### Getting started

Reviewer: I feel like this page is a bit long. Maybe the getting started steps should be on a separate page to the rest of the info we have here.

Reviewer: @KyleTryon I'm deleting this comment and I'm going to make a Jira ticket to look at splitting these docs into more sections, maybe: `Using Orbs` `Authoring Orbs` `Testing Orbs` `Publishing Orbs` or something.

{: #getting-started }

> To begin creating your new orb with the Orb Development Kit, follow these steps. The starting point is creating a new repository on [GitHub.com](https://github.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin creating your new orb with the Orb Development Kit, follow the steps below. The starting point is creating a new repository on [GitHub.com](https://github.com).
```

Ensure the organization on GitHub is the owner for the [CircleCI namespace]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-concepts/#namespaces) for which you are developing your orb. If this is your own personal organization and namespace, you need not worry.

1. **Create a new [GitHub repository](https://github.com/new).**

    The name of your repository is not critical, but we recommend something similar to "myProject-orb". ![New GitHub Repo]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/new_orb_repo_gh.png)

>     When complete, you will be brought to a page confirming your new repository and you should see the generated git URL. Write down the git URL, you will need it in step 4. You can select SSH or HTTPS, which ever you can authenticate with. ![Orb Registry]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/github_new_quick_setup.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When complete, you will be brought to a page confirming your new repository and you should see the generated git URL. Note down the git URL, you will need it in step 4. You can select SSH or HTTPS, whichever you can authenticate with. ![Orb Registry]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/github_new_quick_setup.png)
```

    **Note:** While you must create a local directory for your orb before initializing, it is not necessary to pull down the orb repository. This process will be completed in the `orb init` process and pulling the repository beforehand will cause issues.
    {: class="alert alert-warning"}

1. **Update the CircleCI CLI**

    Ensure you are using the latest version of the CircleCI CLI. You must be using version < CHANGE THIS LATER > or later.

    ```shell
    $ circleci update

    $ circleci version
    ```

1. **Initialize your orb**

>     Open a terminal and initialize your new orb project using the `orb init` CLI command.

Reviewer: Is it necessary to open another terminal  - they've just done the CLI update in one the step before?

    If you are using CircleCI server, you should ensure the `--private` flag is used here to keep your orbs private within your installation.

    To initialize a **[public]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro/#public-orbs)** orb:

    ```shell
    circleci orb init /path/to/myProject-orb
    ```
    To initialize a **[private]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro/#private-orbs)** orb:
    ```shell
    circleci orb init /path/to/myProject-orb --private
    ```

>     Once an orb is initialized, it **cannot be switched from public to private or vice versa**. Please make sure to add the `--private` flag if you intend to create a private orb.

Reviewer: Let's use the Note alert syntax as used above

Author: Added

1. **Push the changes up to Github.**

    During the setup process, the `orb init` command takes steps to prepare your automated orb development pipeline. The modified template code produced by the CLI must be pushed to the repository before the CLI can continue and automatically follow your project on circleci.com. Run the following command from a separate terminal when prompted to do so, substituting the name of your default branch:
    ```shell
    git push origin <default-branch>
    ```
    Once complete, return to your terminal and confirm the changes have been pushed.

1. **Complete the setup**

    Once the changes have been pushed, return to your terminal and continue the setup process. The CLI will now automatically follow the project on CircleCI, and attempt to trigger a pipeline to build and test your orb with sample code.

    You will be provided with a link to the project building on CircleCI where you can view the full pipeline.
    You should also see the CLI has automatically migrated you into a new development branch, named `alpha`. You can use any branch naming you would like, you do not need to exclusively develop on `alpha`.

>     Because we are making use of [dynamic configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/dynamic-config/), we must first enable this feature. You will receive an error on your first pipeline that will state that this feature is not enabled.

Reviewer: I feel like this is another step?

Author: Ya i was trying to be sneaky. Ill break it up lol

    Following the [Getting started with dynamic config in CircleCI]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/dynamic-config/#getting-started-with-dynamic-config-in-circleci), open the **Project Settings** page for your orb on CircleCI, navigate to the **Advanced** tab, and click on the **Enable dynamic config using setup workflows** button.

1. **Develop your orb**

    From a non-default branch (you will be moved to the `alpha` branch automatically at setup), begin modifying the sample orb code to your liking. On each _push_, your orb will be automatically built and tested.

    Be sure to view the _[.circleci/test-deploy](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/Orb-Template/blob/main/.circleci/test-deploy.yml)_ file to view how your orb components are being tested, and modify your tests as you change your orb. Learn more about testing your orb in the [Orb Testing documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/testing-orbs/).

    When you are ready to deploy the first production version of your orb, find information on deploying changes in the [Orb Publishing Process]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/creating-orbs/) guide.

> ### Writing your orb

Reviewer: The following sections - I'm not sure why they are under the main Orb Development Kit heading. Also who are these sections for - are they reference material for people currently writing an orb? Or like a deep dive into the structure of the packaged orb?

Reviewer: Maybe we change the section name: "Create, test and publish an orb" and then add a note at the top that the section uses the Orb dev kit

Reviewer: I'll close this thread so we can get this merged and revisit later

Author: I am slightly concerned about losing the heading link for the dev kit, but it is at the top of the page so should be ok. Sending a commit

> This orb authoring guide assumes you have read the [Introduction to orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro) document, the [Introduction to authoring an orb]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-author-intro) document, and claimed your namespace. At this point you are ready to develop an orb.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This orb authoring guide assumes you have read the [Introduction to orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro) document, the [Introduction to authoring an orb]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-author-intro) document, and claimed your namespace. Now you are ready to develop an orb.
```

### Testing orbs
{: #testing-orbs }

> Much like any other software, there are multiple ways to test your code and it is entirely up to you as the developer to implement as many tests as desired. Within your config file right now there will be a job named [integration-test-1](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/Orb-Template/blob/96c5d2798114fffe7903e2f5c9f021023993f338/.circleci/config.yml#L27) that will need to be updated to test your orb components. This is a type of _integration testing_. Unit testing with orbs is possible as well.

Reviewer 3: Invalid name and link. It should be:

```
[command-tests](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/Orb-Template/blob/main/.circleci/test-deploy.yml#L13)
```
